feat(docs): how-to guide on dynamic flows (#2340)
kestra-io/docs: content/docs/15.how-to-guides/dynamic-flows.md

---
title: Dynamic Flows
icon: /docs/icons/tutorial.svg
stage: Intermediate
topics:
  - Kestra Concepts
---

Implement dynamic flows in Kestra.

In this guide, we will look at ways to implement dynamic flows in Kestra.

## Dynamic Flow using Inputs

> In this method, we will create flow as a template, and the dynamic values in the template can then filled using Kestra inputs generating the desired flow. Let us see this with the help of an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this method, we will create a flow as a template, and the dynamic values in the template can then be filled using Kestra inputs to generate the desired flow. Let us see this with the help of an example.
```

> Here, we will create a sample flow that will download the CSV data using HTTP Download task, and then load the data to postgres table. Such dynamic flow can be helpful when you have new HTTP URLs getting generated on regular cadence, and you need to pull in the latest data from the new HTTP URL and upload it to postgres table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we will create a sample flow that downloads CSV data using the HTTP Download task and then loads the data to a PostgreSQL table. Such a dynamic flow can be helpful when you have new HTTP URLs getting generated on a regular cadence, and you need to pull in the latest data from the new HTTP URL to upload to a table.
```

> The flow will take the HTTP URL and the postgres database connection details as input. This leads to a dynamic flow as the same flow can then be utilized with different HTTP URLs, and different postgres databases and tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The flow will take the HTTP URL and the PostgreSQL database connection details as inputs. This leads to a dynamic flow, as the same flow can then be utilized with different HTTP URLs and different PostgreSQL databases and tables.
```

  - id: postgres_host
    type: STRING
    defaults: "localhost"

  - id: postgres_port
    type: STRING
    defaults: "5432"

  - id: postgres_db
    type: STRING
    defaults: "postgres"

  - id: postgres_table
    type: STRING

  - id: postgres_username
    type: STRING
    
  - id: postgres_password
    type: STRING

tasks:
  - id: http_download
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.http.Download
    uri: "{{ inputs.http_url }}"

  - id: copyin
    type: io.kestra.plugin.jdbc.postgresql.CopyIn
    url: "jdbc:postgresql://{{ inputs.postgres_host }}:{{ inputs.postgres_port }}/{{ inputs.postgres_db }}"
    username: "{{ inputs.postgres_username }}"
    password: "{{ inputs.postgres_password }}"
    format: CSV
    from: "{{ outputs.http_download.uri }}"
    table: "{{ inputs.postgres_table }}"
    header: true
```

As can be seen from the above flow, it is dynamic as all its important parameters are controlled via inputs.

## Dynamic Flow using Code

We can write code in any language to generate the dynamic flow, and then upload the flow to Kestra. Let us understand this with the help of an example.

> We will create a dynamic flow using python which will download the CSV file using HTTP Download task, and upload the contents into postgres table. Say, we want to extract the data from multiple HTTP URLs, and upload the data to corresponding postgres table. We can parallely start the process of downloading the data from HTTP URL and uploading it to postgres table. For two items, products and orders, this is how our flow should look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will create a dynamic flow using python which downloads a CSV file using the HTTP Download task and upload the contents into PostgreSQL table. Say, we want to extract the data from multiple HTTP URLs and upload the data to corresponding a PostgreSQL table. We can, in parallel, start the process of downloading the data from HTTP URL and uploading it to PostgreSQL table. For two items, products and orders, this is how our flow should look like:
```

  """
  return {
    "id": f"sequential_task_{str(idx)}",
    "type": "io.kestra.plugin.core.flow.Sequential",
    "tasks": task_list
  }

tasks_per_item = []

# Iterate over the items and generate Sequential task for each item, and append it to `tasks_per_item`
for idx, item in enumerate(items):
  sequential_tasks = []
  sequential_tasks.append(http_download_task(idx, item))
  sequential_tasks.append(postgres_upload_task(idx, item))
  sequential_task = create_sequential_task(idx, sequential_tasks)
  tasks_per_item.append(sequential_task)

# Generate the dynamic flow
kestra_flow = {
    "id": os.getenv('FLOW_ID', "postgres_upload_flow"),
    "namespace": os.getenv('FLOW_NAMESPACE', "company.team"),
    "tasks": [
        {
            "id": "parallel",
            "type": "io.kestra.plugin.core.flow.Parallel",
            "tasks": tasks_per_item
        }
    ]
}

yaml = YAML()
yaml.indent(mapping=2, sequence=4, offset=2)
yaml.preserve_quotes = True

# Write the generated dynamic flow in yaml format in `kestra_flow.yaml` file
output_path = "kestra_flow.yaml"
with open(output_path, "w") as f:
    yaml.dump(kestra_flow, f)
```

> The above python code will generate dynamic flow with multiple Sequential tasks that will download the data from HTTP URL and upload the CSV into the corresponding postgres table. You can write the above code in a namespace file, say `dynamic_flow.py`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above python code will generate a dynamic flow with multiple Sequential tasks that will download the data from an HTTP URL and upload the CSV into the corresponding PostgreSQL table. You can write the above code in a namespace file, say `dynamic_flow.py`.
```

> Next, we will write a Kestra flow that will invoke the `dynamic_flow.py` python script, and will load the generated dynamic flow into Kestra.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we will write a Kestra flow that will invoke the `dynamic_flow.py` python script and load the generated dynamic flow into Kestra.
```

    type: io.kestra.plugin.scripts.python.Commands
    env:
      FLOW_ID: "{{ inputs.flow_id }}"
      FLOW_NAMESPACE: "{{ inputs.flow_namespace }}"
      EXTRACT_ITEMS: "{{ inputs.extract_items }}"
    warningOnStdErr: false
    beforeCommands: 
      - pip install -q ruamel.yaml
    namespaceFiles:
      enabled: true
    inputFiles:
      script.py: "{{ read('dynamic_flow.py') }}"
    commands:
      - python script.py
    outputFiles:
      - "*.yaml"

  - id: create_flow
    type: io.kestra.plugin.scripts.shell.Commands
    inputFiles:
      flow.yaml: "{{ outputs.create_kestra_flow.outputFiles['kestra_flow.yaml'] }}"
    beforeCommands: 
      - apt-get update
      - apt-get -y install curl
    commands:
      - curl -X POST http://{{inputs.kestra_host}}/api/v1/flows/import -F fileUpload=@flow.yaml
      - echo "Executing the flow from http://{{inputs.kestra_host}}/ui/flows/edit/{{ inputs.flow_namespace }}/{{ inputs.flow_id }}"
  
  - id: subflow
    type: io.kestra.plugin.core.flow.Subflow
    namespace: "{{ inputs.flow_namespace }}"
    flowId: "{{ inputs.flow_id }}"
    wait: true
    transmitFailed: true
```

The flow has the following tasks:

> 1. generate_kestra_flow: This task invokes the `dynamic_flow.py` and generates the dynamic flow by running the Python code. The environment variables like `FLOW_ID`, `FLOW_NAMESPACE` and `EXTRACT_ITEMS` are provided in the task, which are then used by the Python script allowing it to dynamically generate the flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. generate_kestra_flow: This task invokes the `dynamic_flow.py` and generates the dynamic flow by running the Python code. The environment variables like `FLOW_ID`, `FLOW_NAMESPACE`, and `EXTRACT_ITEMS` are provided in the task, which are then used by the Python script to dynamically generate the flow.
```
